about/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About Me
tags: [about, biography]
date: 2023-09-11
comments: false
---
[Resume](/assets/files/resume.pdf)

## Intro to Myself

Hello, World! My name is Christian Robles and I've been programming since 2013. 

My journey into programming began in 8th grade. I was in an engineering class where we had to build an assembly line for transporting a wooden block. I was responsible for programming the beginning part of the assembly line. We used a language similar to Robot-C and I liked how the code just worked. It does exactly what you ask it to. Plus doing an entire semester worth of work in 4 lines of code was pretty cool too.

## Education

With my sights on programming now, I attended the magnet high school Advanced Technologies Academy for their Computer Science program. Thanks to the exceptional teachers, I learned the fundamentals of programming with **Visual Basic**, **C++**, and **Java**. A couple days after graduating in 2017, I started working as Full Stack Developer at LV.Net for the next 6 years.

Thanks to the amazing opportunity to be a developer straight out of high school, I put myself through college. In 2022, I earned a Bachelors in Computer Science from UNLV. While there I took courses learning about Data Structures and Algorithms, Assembly and CPUs, Operating Systems, Networks, Compilers, and much more.

## Work Experience

As a Full Stack Developer at LV.Net, I got working web development knowledge across:
- **LAMP Stack** (**Linux**, **Apache**, **MySQL**, and **PHP**)
- Front End (**Javascript**, **Jquery**, **HTML**, and **CSS**)
- Back End 
  - **MySQL**
  - PHP frameworks (**Symfony**, **Smarty**, and **F3**) 

The main application I worked on was the company's CMS website. The projects I developed and deployed included:

- Shift management system
  - Saved the company 11 hours a day on managing employees shifts.
  - The system efficiently handles shifts, regulates clock-in times and locations, and provides a streamlined time-off request system.
- Automated Write Up system
  - Decreased the amount of workplace violations by 85%.
- Field Technician GPS Report
  - Collaborated with managers to transform field technicians’ GPS data into: 
    - Accurate clock in and out times for the techs
    - Alerts for tardy field technicians
    - Visual of the GPS data using Google Maps API 
  - Saved management 20-30 hours a week on monitoring field technicians.
- Timecard System 
  - Ties to the Shift, Time Off, and Building Access system.
- HR Management Module
  - Onboarding forms
  - PTO calculator based off Nevada law and an employee's timecards

## What Now

Now that I have graduated, my main goal is to pursue [personal projects](/projects/) and develop myself as a Back End developer. With 6 years building business applications at LV.Net, I understand the diverse technological proficiency of end-users and its impact on their interaction with the application. As the company grows, I want to make sure that my projects can scale with the company and is useful to carry out day to day tasks. To accomplish this, I am refactoring all of my projects in **Symfony** with Object Oriented Programming principles, code quality, and maintainability in mind.

Commit message:

fixed styling across buttons and added projects

about/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About Me
tags: [about, biography]
date: 2023-09-11
comments: false
---
[Resume](/assets/files/resume.pdf)

## Intro to Myself

Hello, World! My name is Christian Robles and I've been programming since 2013. 

My journey into programming began in 8th grade. I was in an engineering class where we had to build an assembly line for transporting a wooden block. I was responsible for programming the beginning part of the assembly line. We used a language similar to Robot-C and I liked how the code just worked. It does exactly what you ask it to. Plus doing an entire semester worth of work in 4 lines of code was pretty cool too.

## Education

With my sights on programming, I attended the magnet high school Advanced Technologies Academy for their Computer Science program. Thanks to their exceptional teachers, I learned the fundamentals of programming with **Visual Basic**, **C++**, and **Java**. A couple days after graduating in 2017, I started working as Full Stack Developer at LV.Net for the next 6 years.

Thanks to the amazing opportunity to be a developer straight out of high school, I put myself through college. In 2022, I earned a Bachelors in Computer Science from UNLV. While there I took courses learning about Data Structures and Algorithms, Assembly and CPUs, Operating Systems, Networks, Compilers, and much more.

## Work Experience

As a Full Stack Developer at LV.Net, I got working web development knowledge in the **LAMP Stack** (**Linux**, **Apache**, **MySQL**, and **PHP**). For Front End, I learned to use **Javascript**, **JQuery**, **HTML**, and **CSS**. On Back End, I learned **MySQL** and worked in PHP frameworks such as **Symfony**, **Smarty**, and **F3**.

The main application I worked on was the company's CMS website. The projects I developed and deployed included:

- Shift Management system
  - The system efficiently handles shifts, regulates clock-in times and locations, and provides a streamlined Time Off Request system.
  - Saved the company 11 hours a day on managing employees shifts.
- Timecard System 
  - Established a module for the Accounting department to streamline the retrieval of timecard data for payroll processing.
  - Integrated with the Shift, Time Off, and Building Access systems.
- HR Management Module
  - Transformed HR onboarding forms into a user-friendly web interface for enhanced accessibility and ease of use.
  - Created a PTO calculator algorithm using Nevada law and employee's timecards.
- Automated Write Up system
  - Scheduled cron jobs to check if employees never showed up to their shifts.
  - Provided a quantifiable way of measuring employees' performance challenges and addressing scheduling issues.
  - Decreased the amount of workplace violations by 85%.
- Field Technician GPS Report
  - Collaborated with managers to transform field technicians’ GPS data into: 
    - Accurate clock in and out times for the techs
    - Alerts for tardy field technicians
    - Visual of the GPS data using Google Maps API 
  - Saved management 20-30 hours a week on monitoring field technicians.

## What Now

Now that I have graduated, my main goal is to pursue [personal projects](/projects/) and develop myself as a Back End developer. With 6 years building business applications at LV.Net, I understand the diverse technological proficiency of end-users and its impact on their interaction with the application. As the company grows, I want to make sure that my projects can scale with the company and is useful to carry out day to day tasks. To accomplish this, I am refactoring all of my projects in **Symfony** with Object Oriented Programming principles, code quality, and maintainability in mind.
